# Cursor
Use the cursor script to simplify user interaction such as clicking and dragging of game objects.

# Usage
Attach the `cursor.script` to a game object that should act as a cursor. The game object must have either a kinematic or trigger collision object with a group and mask that matches other collision objects that should be able to interact with the cursor.

IMPORTANT: You must make sure to configure the cursor.script `action_id` field (see below) to match the binding you have in your input bindings for the left mouse button/mouse button 1. The script assumes that the binding has action set to `touch`.

## Script properties
The script has the following [script properties](https://defold.com/manuals/script-properties/):

* `action_id` - (hash) The action_id that corresponds to a press/click/interact action (default: "touch")
* `drag` - (boolean) If the cursor should be able to drag game objects
* `drag_lock_x` - (boolean) If a dragged game object should have movement locked to the horizontal axis
* `drag_lock_y` - (boolean) If a dragged game object should have movement locked to the vertical axis
* `drag_threshold` - (number) Distance the cursor has to move from a pressed object before it's considered dragged
* `collisionobject_filter` - (hash) Id of a collision object component. If specified the cursor script will only accept collision messages from this id.
* `acquire_input_focus` - (boolean) Check if the script should acquire input and handle input events itself
* `notify_own_gameobject` - (boolean) Check if cursor messages should be sent not only to the interacting game object but also to the game object this script is attached to.

NOTE: If both `drag_lock_x` and `drag_lock_y` are set the game object will be locked to the nearest axis when the drag operation was started.

## Input handling
You can let the cursor react to input in several ways:

* Enable the `acquire_input_focus` property. This will make the script automatically respond to input events. If this isn't checked any `on_input()` calls are completely ignored.
* Pass `input` messages. This will feed input events from an external source. This is useful if the app uses a camera solution or render script where screen coordinates doesn't translate to world coordinates and where conversion is required (using a screen_to_world function or similar). The `input` message is expected to have two fields; `action_id` and `action` in the same way as the `on_input` lifecycle function works.

## Messages
The script will generate messages to game objects the cursor is interacting with and to the game object the cursor script is attached to for the following situations:

* `cursor_over` - The cursors moves over the game object (`cursor.OVER`)
* `cursor_out` - The cursor moves out from the game object (`cursor.OUT`)
* `pressed` - When cursor is pressed (on the game object) (`cursor.PRESSED`)
* `released` - When cursor is released (on the game object) (`cursor.RELEASED`)
* `clicked` - When cursor clicked (on the game object) (`cursor.CLICKED`)
* `drag_start` - When starting to drag the game object (`cursor.DRAG_START`)
* `drag_end` - When no longer dragging the game object (`cursor.DRAG_END`)

The messages sent to the game object where the cursor script is attached will have `id` and `group` as well as `x` and `y` (from `action.x` and `action.y`) passed in the message.

## Blocking input events
You can listen for events generated by the cursor script and block execution of the events. This can be used to block drag, pressed and over events.

### cursor.listen(cursor_script_url, cursor_event, callback_fn)
Set up a listener for a specific cursor event from a specific cursor script.

* **cursor_script_url** (url) - URL to the script you wish to listen to
* **cursor_event** (hash) - The cursor message to listen for (see above)
* **callback_fn** (function) - Function to call. Signature (`message_id`, `message`). Return true from the function to block execution of a `cursor.OVER`, `cursor.PRESSED` or `cursor.DRAG_START` event.

Example:

	local cursor = require "in.cursor"

	cursor.listen(msg.url("#cursor"), cursor.DRAG_START, function(message_id, message)
		-- prevent dragging of blue aliens
		if message.group == hash("blue") then
			return true -- return true to block the event
		end
	end)
